# Crash Course Programming (WIP)
Not everyone knows how to write computer code. If you're reading this, there is a good chance that you fall into the category of people who do not "know how to code". If you are okay with that, and don't desire to learn how to code, then please feel free to leave this place - there is nothing here you need - but if you have ever wondered if writing code might be something you enjoy, read on.

## Introduction
Crash Course Programming was created because a friend wanted to learn how to code and I wanted to help teach him. It was as simple as that. After I spent some time building course work and researching and writing information about the first few programming languages I realized that there are probably a lot more people out there that would just like to learn how to code. Now, I am not some super-intelligent, Master Coder™️ but I have been writing code for a long time and I am almost entirely self-taught. I don't believe that I'll be able to teach you every single thing you will ever need to know about programming, but I also don't believe that anyone else will be able to do that either. Programming is best learned by spending time doing it, "time in the saddle" one might call it. This course is designed to give you a broad overview of the major topics of programming in many languages. Things will be left out and missed, and that is sometimes on purposes and sometimes just okay.

## Why a new programming course?
This question is what I asked myself as I started writing all this. Why not just point people to the abundant courses out there? Am I trying to get rich or famous?
I could just publish a course on some paid content platform and then shill it to everyone I can on the internet, but frankly I'm just not that good at any of this and I don't want the cost of entry to be something that keeps you from realizing your dream to learn how to code.
A new public repo also means that we can build this thing together, and can hear from many different voices, which is something that I love about programming.
